NEWARK – Thad Claggett, a Republican candidate for the Ohio House, said recent radio and television attack ads against him show the state Republican leadership wants someone it can control in Columbus.

The political ads, paid for by the Ohio House Republican Campaign Committee, allege Claggett's company received millions in taxpayer money from a civil lawsuit it filed 14 years ago over a school renovation contract at Career and Technology Education Centers of Licking County.

The Republican primary election to the 71st Ohio House District seat pits Claggett, of Newark, against incumbent Mark Fraizer, R-Newark, who was appointed to the Ohio House in November, a week after being re-elected to Newark City Council. The winner faces Democrat Mark Carr in the general election.

A spokeswoman for the HRCC said it is not unusual for the committee to place ads in a Republican primary election.

"Our top priority is to support incumbents in both primary and general elections," an HRCC statement said.


Claggett, president of Claggett & Sons Inc., a 66-year-old commercial general contracting company in Newark, said the ads are not accurate and a sad attempt to derail his candidacy.

“Not one word of what they are accusing me of is even remotely true," Claggett said. "We knew they’d pull some sort of stunt. We didn’t know what, of course. (Watching the ads), it was a mixture of angry and disappointed the Republican leadership would do this. To be intentionally misleading is just stupid.”


The HRCC said the ads were based on media reports about the lawsuit and the school's financial picture in 2010.

The lawsuit, filed in Licking County Common Pleas Court, named the school's board of education and project architect Kimball Associates, as defendants. Claggett & Sons alleged the school board was guilty of breach of contract, wrongful termination and bad faith termination, and alleged Kimball allegedly engaged in negligence, misrepresentation and interference.


The school board claimed the contractor missed deadlines, installed defective work, submitted unjustified claims and failed to provide a construction schedule or enough skilled workers.

In December 2009, Licking County Common Pleas Judge Tom Marcelain ruled in favor of Claggett & Sons, stating Kimball made major mistakes, did not act in good faith and misled C-TEC. Kimball's initial construction manager was indicted, tried and convicted for criminal offenses before he was terminated.

Claggett said his company never received the $3.8 million from the wrongful termination lawsuit it filed in 2006, against architect Kimball Associates and the C-TEC board of education.

“We were thrown off the job illegally," Claggett said. "The judge accepted all 20 counts and awarded $3.8 million. The money we got was effectively an interest payment. The school district didn’t have any money. We could have gone against the school and shut it down, but we weren’t going to do that."

Claggett said $500,000 was all the school could afford to pay. Claggett & Sons then went after the architect and received about $1 million from Kimball Associates. He said the company ended up losing money on the project.

Attacks on the company's safety record are also false, Claggett said. The company has an outstanding safety record with the Ohio Bureau of Workers Compensation, received numerous safety awards and no employee has ever lost any wages due to a workplace injury, Claggett said.

“Whether Fraizer is the author of these distortions or he is too weak to stop the committee paying for them, he is demonstrating he is completely controlled by the Columbus political establishment," Claggett said.

Fraizer said he did not pay for the ads, but remembers the impact the lawsuit had on the school.

“When I was a student in 2006, I watched as well as my community watched, as a beloved county-wide institution went from expanding a facility to cutting staff and reducing programs as a direct result from my opponent," Fraizer said. "The people in our community remember the 4-year lawsuit and negative impact the outcome has had on education and children in our community."

Claggett said he knew who would receive the Republican appointment before he interviewed for the job.

“I was on my way over to the interview and heard it had already been decided," Claggett said. "And, my interview lasted eight minutes. It was a brush-off interview. The leadership had decided they wanted somebody that would do what they were told, and I wasn’t the guy.”

Fraizer said his interview was about 15 minutes, and he heard Claggett received about the same.

"Everybody was given equal time, equal vetting and had the opportunity to persuade," Fraizer said. "I understand he's probably upset he wasn't the No. 1 pick."

Fraizer said his goal has been to simply represent the residents of his district.

"I'm trying to work hard for the people," Fraizer said. "In the last four months I've proposed three bills and three more finishing up now. Collaboration is essential in politics."
NEWARK – Thad Claggett, a candidate for the Ohio House, attacked Rep. Mark Fraizer, his Republican primary election opponent, for a 2016 Newark City Council vote to prohibit discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation.

The council vote, which was unanimous, expanded the ban on discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation to all aspects of the codified ordinances of the city. It affected employment, intimidation and housing.

The ordinance defined sexual orientation as “a person’s actual or perceived homosexuality, bisexuality, or heterosexuality or transgender, by orientation or practice, by and between consenting adults.”



Get the news delivered to your inbox: Sign up for our politics newsletter


Claggett, 49, said he fears Fraizer, 31, will support pending House Bill 369, which would prohibit discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity or expression. He also alleged the council legislation led to a plan, later canceled, to celebrate Newark’s Pride Day at the Newark branch of the Licking County library in 2019.

“When you’re young and inexperienced, like Fraizer, you are susceptible to being fooled into supporting things without fully understanding their impact,” Claggett stated in a press release. “In this case, Fraizer voted for something that invited unwanted activity to our community.”

Fraizer said the event at the library had nothing to do with council legislation approved three years earlier, and he does not support HB 369.

“I think it’s dirty politics, but when you don’t have a record to run on, that’s what you rely on,” Fraizer said. “He’s got no record, no experience and is trying to confuse voters and misinform voters.

“I’m opposed to (HB 369) because there’s not enough caveats for religious organizations and people working within the state with a religious affiliation.”

The event planned for the library and later switched to Denison Art Space, aimed at teens in celebration of Pride Day, offered a drag queen celestial makeup tutorial, flag button and rainbow wing crafts, a safe-sex program from Equitas Health and games.

“When Fraizer supported this special rights legislation, he unwittingly attracted a transgender group to rent a public community room in one of our Licking County branch libraries,” Claggett said. “Why Licking County? Because they felt emboldened to teach their obscene transgender how-to classes to young boys based on the legislation Fraizer supported on city council.”

Fraizer said the Newark ordinance and the Ohio House bill are very different.

“My opponent has been using this minor Newark Codified Ordinance update to accuse me of causing a drag show at the library,” Fraizer said. “He’s been saying we’re proponents of things we’re not proponents of, and opponents of things we’re not opponents of.

“All aspects of the Newark Codified Ordinances is different than all aspects of the Ohio Revised Code,” Fraizer said. “I support our decision with a 10-0 Republican majority decision in Newark and do not feel that this had anything to do with an LGBTQ event at the library.”

Claggett, of Newark, who has served as a member and chairman of the Licking County Library Board for 14 years, said he canceled the event at the library days before Ohio House Speaker Larry Householder wrote an open letter to the library demanding it be canceled.

Fraizer, elected to a second term on Newark City Council on Nov. 5, was appointed to the Ohio House on Nov. 13, to fill the unexpired term of State Rep. Scott Ryan. Fraizer was chosen from a pool of five candidates to interview for the position. The others were Claggett, Bradley Chute, Andrew King and Fred Wolf.

The winner of the Republican primary will face Democrat Mark Carr in the general election. The winner in November takes office in January. The district includes much of central, northern and western Licking County.
NEWARK – Voters will choose from two Newark residents with strong ties to the community in an increasingly nasty Republican primary election for the 71st Ohio House District.

Mark Fraizer and Thad Claggett have traded jabs in recent weeks, as they compete for the right to face Democrat Mark Carr in the general election.

Claggett attacked Fraizer for his 2016 Newark City Council vote to prohibit discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. He called Fraizer "young and inexperienced" and "completely controlled by the Columbus political establishment."

Fraizer accused Claggett of dirty politics and said of his opponent, "He's got no record and no experience." He said Claggett is trying to confuse voters.

A House Republican Campaign Committee paid for radio and television ads alleging Claggett's company received millions in taxpayer money from a civil lawsuit it filed 14 years ago over a school renovation contract at Career and Technology Education Centers of Licking County.

Claggett responded, saying, "Not one word of what they are accusing me of is even remotely true."

Mark Fraizer
Mark Fraizer (Photo: Submitted)

Fraizer, 31, elected to a second term on Newark City Council on Nov. 5, received a Republican Party appointment to the Ohio House on Nov. 13, filling the unexpired term of State Rep. Scott Ryan. The current term ends Dec. 31 and the next two-year term begins in January.

"My family has been here four generations," Fraizer said. "We care about this community. I don’t come from money. We’ve worked for everything we got. We need somebody that’s an advocate for you that understands the issues and is passionate enough to address them. I think I’m that guy.”

Claggett, 49, president of Claggett & Sons, Inc., a Newark commercial contracting company in business 66 years, also sought the party appointment to replace Ryan in the Ohio House. Claggett is also president of the Licking County Library Board.

“I’ve always thought it was important that people in the community that have some experience, that have some expertise to share, should serve if they could," Claggett said. "When Scott Ryan resigned, it seemed like the time to help would be now.”


The primary election is March 17, when polls will be open from 6:30 a.m. to 7:30 p.m. Early voting has begun and will continue daily from Monday through March 16. The Licking County Board of Elections, 20 S. Second St., Newark, will be open for early voting 8 a.m. to 7 p.m. Monday through March 13, 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. March 14, 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. March 15 and 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. March 16.


Despite their strong condemnations of their opponents, the candidates agree on most of the major issues facing the district and the state. Both are strong defenders of the Second Amendment, pro-life on the abortion issue and support the death penalty. They discussed those national issues, as well as western Licking County growth, the future of Moundbuilders Country Club and charter schools with The Advocate's Editorial Board.

In response to a question about the state's role in ensuring development improves the lives of Licking Countians, Claggett said he supports strong township government instead of state involvement.

Get the News Alerts newsletter in your inbox.
Get alerted to the latest stories to stay on top of the news.

"From my perspective, less government is better," Claggett said. "I don’t want to see anything that’s a stretch beyond what the Ohio constitution allows us to do. What I don’t want to see is the state get involved in people’s lives to the point where it’s doing things people ought to be doing for themselves or should be done as local as possible.”

Fraizer said utilities and zoning are two key topics connected to western Licking County growth.

"One of the major issues is water and wastewater in western Licking County. It’s always been an ongoing issue that we haven’t been able to resolve. So, I started with a mayor’s council to talk with Johnstown, Granville, Newark and Heath, who all have 50% capacity of water, so they can actually scale up to provide water and sewer into this area that has been neglected.

“The other piece is to zone appropriately along 161 corridor so we don’t have the Delaware expansion that we see up there, where these agricultural and rural areas lose their identity with housing complexes that come in all over the place.”

On the legal battle between the Ohio History Connection and Moundbuilders Country Club over the future of The Octagon Mounds, a possible World Heritage site, both sympathized the country club's plight.

Claggett said, "By and large, I’m a property rights guy, meaning if the owner holds the property free and clear, you cannot come back after the fact and change the rules on them. My sense is that’s what’s happened to Moundbuilders.”

Fraizer said the country club has performed an important service to the community for more than a century.

“I’ve been trying to remain neutral, but honestly there is value to have that preserved, and it wouldn’t be preserved if it wasn’t for the country club," Fraizer said. "I think that’s pretty evident from the surrounding area that, If the country club wasn’t there since 1905, there wouldn’t be those Indian mounds there. If there is eminent domain and the courts rule in favor of OHC, they need to be paid a fair market price for that value.”
‘Dark money’ is a “slap in the face to Clermont County voters,” according to four Republicans across three different State House races at a joint press conference on March 6. 

Present at the conference were: Joe Dills, who is running in the Republican primary for Ohio House District 65; Adam Bird, and Nick Owens, both of whom are running in the Republican primary for Ohio House District 66; and Thaddeus Claggett, who is running in the Republican primary for Ohio House District 71 (which covers portions of Licking County). 

The candidates decried the use of so-called “dark money” spent on the campaigns with negative TV and radio ads, internet ads, and mailers to voters.

Dark money refers to money spent on campaigns that came from either candidate committees or political parties, and from groups that don’t have to disclose their donors. 

Outside the press conference, decrying both “dark money” and insider politics at the local level in Clermont County, was Dillon Blevins, who is also in the House 65 race against Dills, as well as Jean Schmidt.

At the center of the issue is the Growth & Opportunity PAC, Inc. Growth & Opportunity’s website says it’s “dedicated to advocating for the election of candidates to public office who support policies and solutions based on free enterprise, limited government, and economic growth.”

The ads and mailers filling the Clermont County airwaves and mailboxes come with the PAC’s stamp of approval.

Under the Federal Election Commission, the PAC is listed as a super PAC with an address based in Lexington, Kentucky and created by Eric Lycan in 2015. 

Ads and mailers have pointed out Dills’ use of Ashley Madison, a dating website marketed to people seeking extra-marital affairs, and depicted Owens and Bird as liberals, claiming Owens gave bonuses to Columbus bureaucrats, and that Bird pushed for cuts to vital services while superintendent at New Richmond Schools.

In two active Facebook ads that began on Feb. 28, the PAC states about Bird and Owens’ District 66 opponent, Allen Freeman,, “Democrats are doing everything to bring down President Trump, but conservative Allen Freeman stands with him. As your State Representative, Allen will work with President Trump to keep Ohio on the path to prosperity.” 

In the second ad, it says the same thing, but with Jean Schmidt instead of Freeman.

Super PACs are different from traditional PACs because they are prohibited from donating money directly to political candidates, and their spending can not be coordinated with that of the candidates they benefit.

Additionally, these “independent expenditure-only committees,” as they are otherwise known, are able to raise unlimited sums of money from corporations, unions, associations, and individuals, and then spend unlimited sums to overtly advocate for or against political candidates.

Super PACs are bipartisan affairs. As of March 2020, there are 1,669 groups organized as super PACs, with reported receipts of $493 million and total expenditures of nearly $87 million. Of the ones that put a label on it, 495 are “conservative,” and 448 are “liberal,” according to opensecrets.org.

Similarly, opposition to “dark money” has been a bipartisan affair, with members of both parties calling for campaign finance reform.

Dills connected the PAC to Larry Householder, the Ohio House Speaker, saying Householder is trying to buy “yes votes.”

“I think that’s a slap in the face of Clermont County. It’s a slap in the face to the voters of Clermont County. And I think it’s a slap in the face of democracy,” he said, adding that those candidates would be beholden to that money.

It’s ridiculous, unacceptable and disgusting, Dills added.

Dills called the mailers “below the belt hits.”

Bird said he thinks the people of Clermont and Brown Counties see through this. 

“I believe that the voters in District 66, they’re independent, they’re free-thinking, they’re intelligent and they’re capable of seeing through this load of money being sent in here in an unprecedented way,” he said.

Owens said the money spent by the PAC could have been better spent on pregnancy resource centers and drug treatment. 

“They care more about destroying lives than saving lives,” he said.

Owens added that the spending he views as attributable to Columbus is about “total control and power.”